Skills. Similar to skill trees in Diablo.

Each time you level up, you gain <n> points that you can spend leveling up
skills. Skills start at level zero and may have a maximum level. In addition,
most skills have preconditions: these are minimum levels of other skills. You
can only gain a skill whose preconditions are met.

Most skills only have a single precondition, which makes it roughly tree-like,
but some have more than one, so it's really a skill digraph.

Skill points can not generally be reassigned, but there is rare potion that
enables it.

Combat - Plus to damage.
[Weapon] Mastery - Multiplier to damage when wielding a certain kind of weapon.
Alchemy - Larger crucible, which allows recipes with more ingredients.
? - Larger inventory.
Lockpicking - Better success at opening treasure chests and locked doors.
Botany - Greater chance of plant-based drops. (Mainly useful for ingredients.)
Hunting - Greater chance of animal-based drops. (Pelts, etc.)
[Monster] Lore - Multiplier to damage when attacking a certain kind of monster.
Divination - Reduces mana required to cast divination spells.
Enchanting - Reduces mana required to cast enchanting spells.
Necromancy - Reduces mana required to cast necromancy spells.
Sorcery - Reduces mana required to cast sorcery spells.
Conjuring - Reduces mana required to cast conjuring spells.
Stealth - Reduces sound made when walking.
Assassination - Reduce sound made when attacking, increased damage to sleeping monsters.

- Strength
  - [Weapon] Mastery: Increases damage with weapons in one category.
  - Archery: Enables using bows.
- Agility
  - Stealth: Reduce sound when walking.
    - Assassination: Reduce sound when attacking. Increase damage to sleeping
        monsters with ranged weapon.
    - Backstabbing: Increase damage to sleeping monsters in melee.
- Fortitude
  - Stone Skin: Increases armor.
- Intellect
  - Alchemy: Reduce mana required for alchemy spells.
    - Fire Brand: cause weapon to do elemental fire damage for a while.
    - Ice Brand: cause weapon to do elemental cold damage for a while.
    - Lightning Brand: cause weapon to do elemental lightning damage for a while.
    - Acid Brand: cause weapon to do elemental acid damage for a while.
    - Enchant Weapon: chance of increasing the bonus on a weapon permanently.
    - Enchant Armor: chance of increasing the bonus on a weapon permanently.
    - Recharge: chance of increasing the number of charges on a wand. May fail and break the item.
    - Intensify: decreases the number of charges on a wand (or rod by increasing recharge time) and increases the power of the item. May fail and break the item.
    - Transfer: transfers the magical powers of one piece of equipment to another.
    - Circle of Protection: inscribes a circle in the ground around the alchemist. All adjacent monsters suffer strike and damage penalties.
    - Combine Enchantment: attempts to transfer the damage, strike, and armor bonus from one piece of equipment to another.
    - Combine Potions: attempts to combine a number of similar potions into one stronger potion, i.e. Cure Light Wounds -> Cure Serious Wounds.

  - Divination: Reduce mana required to cast divination spells.
    - Detect Monsters: see all nearby monsters for a few turns.
    - Detect Treasure: see all nearby equipment.
    - Detect Enchantment: see all nearby enchanted equipment.
    - See Walls: see all nearby walls.
    - Foresight: raises armor by allowing character to know when and how monster will attack.
    - Examination: shows all of the info for the targeted creature.
    - Find Traps: shows nearby traps. Will also detect traps on nearby chests.
    - Unlock: unlocks the targeted door or chest. Will disarm chest if there is a known trap on it.
    - All-seeing Eye: maps and lights the entire dungeon.
    - Sense Weakness: senses any weaknesses in the targeted monster's defenses. Subsequent melee attack against that monster will do double damage.
    - Call to Relics: will see all artifacts (if any) in the dungeon.
    - Identify: shows basic information for an item.
    - Lore: shows full information for an item or artifact, including hidden powers.
    - Perception: shows detailed information about a monster including the max damage it can do in one round by each attack.
  - Enchanting: Reduce mana required to cast enchanting spells.
    - Heal: restore HP.
    - Haste Self: increase character's speed.
    - Antivenom: remove poisoned condition.
    - Sleep: puts nearby monsters to sleep.
    - Stone Skin: temporarily increases armor.
    - Enrage: enrages chosen monster. The monster will only try to melee attack the hero.
    - Mindsense: temporary ESP.
    - Charm: confuses chosen monster.
    - Hallucination: confuses all monsters in line of sight.
    - Polymorph: changes the chosen monster into a monster of a randomly chosen race.
    - Terrify: monsters in line of sight become afraid and flee hero.
  - Necromancy: Reduce mana required to cast necromancy spells.
    - Drain Life: takes HP from monster and gives to character.
    - Summon Undead: summons undead monsters to fight for the character.
    - Sense Life: shows nearby living things.
    - Satisfy Hunger: satifies character's hunger.
    - Eat Life: takes HP from monster and satisfies hunger.
    - Soul Blast: sacrifices HP to create a bolt of lifeforce which damages targeted enemy.
    - Soul Storm: sacrifices HP to damage nearby enemies.
    - Weaken: slows targeted enemy.
    - Weaken All: slows all nearby enemies.
    - Putrefy: when the targeted monster is slain, it will erupt into a ball of poisonous gas whose strength is based on the strength of the monster slain.
    - Transmutation: removes poisoned condition and cures health
  - Sorcery: Reduce mana required to cast sorcery spells
    - Icicle: fire an icicle at a chosen target
    - Lightning Bolt: attack monster with lightning damage, arcs to adjacent
    - Fire Ball: create a fire ball at a chosen location
    - Storm: create a lightning storm which damages all nearby enemies
    - Gale: generate wind which damages and pushes back adjacent enemies
    - Stalagmites: creates stone spikes that damage nearby enemies then persist
  - Conjuring: Reduce mana required to cast conjuring spells
    - Flee: moves the player to a random nearby tile
    - Escape: like Flee but with a greater radius
    - Banish: teleports the targeted monster away randomly
    - Magical Grasp: teleport the chosen visible item to the hero's inventory
    - Conjure Food: create food in the hero's inventory
    - Portal: open a one-way portal back to the town
    - Teleport Self: teleport the hero to a chosen nearby tile
    - Teleport Monster: teleport the targeted monster to a chosen nearby tile
    - Conjure Potion: create potion that helps current condition
    - Window Home: access hero's home inventory

- Will
