http://www.amirrorclear.net/flowers/game/sil/Sil-130-Manual.pdf

> There are no ‘stat potions’, so initial stats matter a lot more.

There's something to said for characters not all having everything maxed out
at the end.

> Sil is unusual among roleplaying games in that the races are intentionally not
> balanced against one another. Instead, they act like a difficulty level.

Stats are used for lots of things. It makes me realize how much flavor they
would add to Hauberk. For example, mages that don't put points into strength
can't throw as far, wear armor as heavy, maybe even have fewer inventory slots.
Stats might help make characters feel more unique.

Treat them as differentiators and not simply another progress bar to max out.
One option would to have a max total number of points that can be used to raise
stats instead of a max per stat. That means as you near the limit, you have to
choose which stats to prioritize.

>     Greatsword (-2,3d5) [+1]
>     Mail corslet (-1) [-3,2d4]
>
> This greatsword offers a +1 bonus to evasion, making you slightly harder to
> strike. This represents your ability to parry with it. On the other hand, the
> mail corslet is sufficiently cumbersome that it gives a penalty to accuracy as
> well as a penalty to evasion.

Having equipment modify substats like this would help them feel more different.

> In addition, the defender’s evasion score is halved against archery (this can
> stack with the halvings mentioned above). This makes evasion considerably less
> useful against archery than against melee.

It's hard to dodge an incoming arrow!

> Finally, it is very dangerous to use your bow when there are enemies in melee
> range. Firing your bow in such a circumstance will let your guard down,
> allowing all adjacent enemies to make a free attack on you.

Not sure how well that would work out, but it's pretty interesting. I think
Hauberk's approach of forcing the player to switch weapons might be better.

> Instead of damaging you directly, poison damage is added to your poison
> counter. Each round, the poison counter is reduced by 20% and you suffer this
> damage.

So poison does a sort of logorithmic decay. Based on the counter. That's cool
because it means a *lot* of poison also damages you faster.

> Sil has a sophisticated morale model for its enemies. Other than mindless
> creatures (which always just attack you) most enemies take stock of the
> situation and retreat if needed. They have a morale level which changes
> depending on the circumstances.

This whole section is worth reading. It's similar to fear in Hauberk, though
it uses more explicit hero and other properties to modify. Seems easier to tune.
I really like:

> Similar creatures in line of sight that are not fleeing (+1 each, or +4 for
> leaders)
>
> Similar creatures in line of sight that are fleeing (–1 each, or –4 for
> leaders)

This seems like it would lead to nice emergent group behavior where monsters
tend to flee or fight together.

Between aggressive and afraid, it has another behavioral state:

> Confident monsters may use tactics while attacking you (such as lurking in
> rooms waiting for you).

There are also two "sleeping" states: sleeping and unwary. The latter is:

> They are awake and going about their business, but they do not know that you
> are there. Their evasion is halved.

When forging items, you can put some other yourself into it: drain a stat or
burn experience.

> You gain experience for encountering each individual enemy the first time you
> see it (or if you kill it without ever seeing it).

This way, you can gain experience while playing a sneaky character.
Identification also grants experience.

The "Charge" ability grants:

> If you attack an opponent after having just moved towards that opponent (so
> that your move and attack are in the same direction or at most 45° apart),
> then your attack is calculated as if you had 3 more points of strength and
> dexterity.

The "Follow Through" ability:

> If you kill an opponent, you get a free ‘follow-through’ attack on another
> opponent adjacent to you.

> Whirlwind Attack
>
> When you attack an enemy in an open area (no walls or rubble adjacent to you),
> you get a free attack on all other enemies that are adjacent to you.

> Sprinting
>
> You gain +1 speed if you move four or more squares in roughly the same
> direction.

Lots of other cool ideas in there for skills/abilities.
