- Divination: detection, unlock, sense weakness
- Enchanting: heal, haste, charm, polymorph
- Necromancy: drain life, sense life, putrefy, summon undead
- Sorcery: lightning bolt, fireball
- Conjuring: flee, banish, conjure food, teleport, home

I came up with these schools roughly by thinking about different kinds of spells
and trying to bucket them by similarity. That might not make for the best
gameplay experience.

A different idea is that each school is a different answer to the question, "How
do spells make the mage more effective?" The existing schools are something
like:

- Divination: By giving the mage access to important information.
- Enchanting: By changing the mage's own body, or changing nearby monsters.
- Necromancy: Kind of similar to above.
- Sorcery: By dishing out damage.
- Conjuring: By moving more effectively and creating items from scratch.

Potential answers, and the kinds of spells they imply:

- By gaining knowledge so decisions are better informed
  - Detection, light
- By dishing out damage directly.
  - Fireball, lightning bolt
- By turning monsters into assets.
  - Explode corpse, charm
- By making monsters less effective.
  - Confuse, slow, polymorph
- By making the mage more powerful.
  - Haste, heal, stone skin
- By changing the dungeon.
  - Stone to mud, glyph of warding
- By changing items.
  - Fire brand
- By creating items.
  - Create food

It would be cool to have enough schools so that a player could either specialize
deeply on one, or be strong in two. That way each pair of schools also becomes
an interesting build style.

Open questions:

- How does this interact with priest-like characters?
- Does grouping spells by similar behavior actually lead to fun characters?
  Would it make more sense for each school to have a variety of kinds of spells
  so that each isn't too narrowly focused?
