The explore mechanic works OK for slow regeneration, but I've been thinking
about healing items and food and related stuff. The goals I have in mind are:

1. The player needs some way to recuperate the health lost during a battle.

2. It shouldn't regenerate fast enough to be helpful *during* a battle.

3. It should encourage the player to explore and not play too conservatively. In
   particular, I want to avoid the Angband play style where you always fully
   rest the second you're out of danger and you never go into battle at anything
   but full health.

4. Using some kind of items for this would give another kind of useful loot for
   the player to look for.

5. If the mechanics for managing regeneration are themselves
   interesting/fun/strategic, that could be good.

The current explore mechanic accomplishes the first three OK. Here's an idea to
get all five:

We introduce a food counter and food items. Food items add to the counter when
consumed. Each turn reduces it and regenerates a little health. If your health
is at its max, the counter still counts down.

The last part is what makes this interesting. It gives you a disincentive to
consume food when you've only lost a small amount of health -- you'll quickly
top off and then the rest of the food is wasted. So you have to strategically
choose when to eat so that you balance not wasting food while not walking around
too wounded.

Also, it gives a new category of items/resources for players to manage, which is
sorely lacking.

I don't plan to add starvation as a mechanic. It's fine to run around all day
with your food counter at zero. I want players to feel they need to keep moving
and exploring to progress, but I don't want them to feel like even an empty room
is a hostile environment where every step takes them closer to death.

Ancillary stuff we could hang off this:

-   Sickness and vomiting as a mechanic. Throwing up would, uh, forcibly reset
    your food counter.

-   Monsters that drain your food counter.

-   Spells and items that affect the rate that it drains.

-   Spells and items that drain the food counter and use it for some reason.
    For example, "berzerk" could burn it twice as fast and wear off when it hits
    zero.

-   Skills that turn monsters into edible corpses when killed.

-   Constitution or disease could put a max limit on the food counter, such
    that consuming an item tends to waste some of it. Or perhaps it just lowers
    the amount that eating increases the counter.
