The new reachability-based dungeon generator creates very twisty corridors.
That's fine, but the running code doesn't handle them well. Instead of running
all the way through, the hero stops at a lot of corners. The running code is
supposed to handle 90° turns in corridors correctly, but I think several short
turns trip it up. It's time to revisit the code.

Also, the current implementation feels pretty ad hoc and hacky. There isn't
much of a principled design to it.

When the player chooses to run in a certain direction, I think it means one of
two things:

-   In a relatively open space, it means "run in a straight line this way as
    far as you can".

    I'm not sure if the hero should keep running into a corridor and proceed
    through there from this mode.

-   In a confined space like a corridor, it means "start running this way and
    keep going as long as there is only one way to go." In other words, keep
    running through the twists and turns of the corridor until presented with an
    interesting choice.

    Note that "only one way to go" isn't literally true. When approaching a
    right angle, the hero can choose to step into the corner, or go diagonally
    around it. But that's not an *interesting* choice.

There are a couple of conditions that apply while running:

-   Stop if the hero sees a monster or a monster moves.

-   Don't leak information to the player. So the hero can't use the real state
    of unexplored tiles to affect running.

-   Stop on items.

Basically, the intent is that the game plays "automatically" until the hero
reaches a point where they have to make an interesting choice (like which
branch of a fork to take, or whether to pick up an item), or until the hero
gains new information that may affect the player's strategy (like a monster
waking up).
