OK, so I think focus and fury should be the next step to make combat more
tactical and interesting. Focus is already implemented, but I think the numbers
are all over the place. Here's the current rules:

## Current implementation

*   Max focus is `2 * Int^1.3`, rounded up.

    ```
    Int 1 -> 2
    Int 10 -> 40
    Int 20 -> 99
    Int 30 -> 167
    Int 40 -> 242
    Int 50 -> 324
    Int 60 -> 410
    ```

*   When taking damage, loses `MaxFocus * damage * 2 / MaxHealth` focus, rounded
    down.

*   Gains `2` focus every walk step, `10` focus every rest.

*   Spells spend focus and have "complexity" (int requirement):

    ```
                    Focus  Complexity
    Flee                6          10
    Escape             14          15
    Disappear          40          30
    Sense Items        18          17
    Icicle              8          10
    Brilliant Beam     20          14
    Windstorm          26          18
    Fire Barrier       60          30
    Tidal Wave        200          40
    ```

    Both focus and complexity scale with proficiency. So a proficiency of `2`
    cuts both in half.

*   Archery doesn't currently consume any focus.

*   Will doesn't do anything.

## Goals

OK, so what are the high level behavioral goals of the system?

*   It should limit the amount of magic players can dump into an encounter. A
    mage shouldn't be able to fire literally their strongest spell every single
    turn. It generally limits spellcaster power.

*   Stronger heroes can dish out more total magic over time in an encounter.

*   Weaker spells can be used more frequently than stronger ones.

*   Mages (and to a lesser extent archers) should be disincentivized to wade in
    melee and take hits. It should encourage tactical play where players spend
    turns repositioning to avoid melee damage.

    Conversely, it should be a relative strength of non-magic using heroes that
    they don't have to worry about this. It balances the relative strength of
    spellcasting by making taking melee damage more harmful.

*   At the same time, need to avoid a death spiral where if a mage gets any
    melee damage, they are too crippled to do anything about it. This may mean
    simply that mages also need some escape items and non-magical options.

*   It should slow down encounters somewhat by forcing players to spend some
    turns recouping focus.

*   It makes spell selection more interesting by doing some cost/benefit
    analysis.

*   It is *not* a goal of the system to limit *which* actions a player can
    perform at all. There shouldn't be skills that the player has but can never
    use because their *max* focus is too low. That's what complexity is for.

*   Focus should regain quickly enough to be useful during an encounter. In
    particular, mage strategy should not be to burn all your focus on the first
    couple of turns and then play like a melee character the rest of the
    encounter.

*   Resting to regain focus outside of an encounter should not scale up much,
    if at all, with player level.

*   Spending more points in intellect provides earlier access to powerful
    spells. If you're smart enough to know a spell, you should have enough focus
    to cast it.

## Max focus and regeneration

Another way to look at this is what do the various values and rates mean in
terms of gameplay?

*   Max focus determines how much magic a player can dump into the beginning of
    an encounter. If there was no maximum, the player could store up a huge
    amount and just pour spells out each turn.

*   Focus regeneration determines the steady state behavior. It's the rate that
    players can spend focus continuously throughout an encounter.

## Baselines

Here are some rough points in the numeric space:

*   An archer should be able to fire every turn as long as they avoid taking
    damage. Stronger archers can take a hit every now and then and keep firing.
    High level archers can practically always fire regardless of damage, but
    maybe some higher level archery skills (split shot, whatever) get
    sacrificed.

*   Most mages should have some relatively weak damage spell they can cast
    every turn. As they get more powerful, that may be a stronger spell.

*   Even very powerful makes can only cast the strongest spells once or twice
    in an encounter. Casting the strongest spells means making a huge sacrifice
    in not being able to access even quite weak spells for some time.

*   Even end-game mages still need to worry about avoiding melee damage.

*   Archers should not need to spend points on intellect in order to make
    archery usable.

*   Dual-class battle-mages can still access some amount of magic even while
    taking a lot of melee damage. But they may never have access to the
    strongest spells and even high-level ones have to make real trade-offs
    between magic and melee in encounters.

## Non-encounter focus

Since focus is regained when resting, it does *not* limit spellcasting power
outside of encounters. When the player isn't on the clock, they have essentially
infinite focus. If we want to limit non-encounter magic use, then we need some
other mechanism for that. Ideas:

*   Make powerful non-encounter spells (think large-scale magic mapping or
    genocide in Angband) require consumable spell components.

*   Create some kind of clock-like mechanic outside of encounters. Food is that,
    in theory, but doesn't currently work. Having monsters spawn over time in
    unexplored areas could do it. Maybe reward players more for completing in
    fewer turns.

## Proposal

Max focus scales with intellect but relatively slowly. Archers will generally
be at max focus and consume it slowly, so they don't need to raise max focus.
All they really care about is not having it lowered too much by taking damage,
which training will covers. It goes up so that high level mages can dish out
more total magic early in an encounter than weaker ones.

Focus probably regenerates during all turns, even melee attacks and using items.
That lets players do other useful stuff beyond just walking or resting during
an encounter while waiting to recharge. Walking and resting should regain focus
faster, but even other tasks can probably regenerate a little.

Will scales down the amount that focus is lowered when taking damage. At very
high levels, melee has almost no effect on focus. But mages cannot afford to
maximize this because they need to spend those points in intellect in order to
unlock stronger spells. Dual-class style characters may put a lot in will and
less in intellect so they can use weaker spells reliably even in melee.

Otherwise, focus cost from taking damage is basically just damage scaled by
some multiplier. Doesn't take max health into account because we don't want
mages to be punished for not training fortitude. You can be brilliant but
sickly.

Intellect and proficiency scales the focus cost of spells down. This lets
smarter mages dish out more total spells over time.

The amount of focus regained each turn increases the longer the player goes from
having lowered it by taking a hit or spending it. This way resting outside of an
encounter is pretty quick even for high intellect characters. It models that
even a single hit "breaks" the character's concentration which has to be
somewhat restored over time. And it places some interesting tension on the
player where each additional turn of resting in an encounter nets a greater and
greater chunk of focus but risking losing a lot of they get hit.

Not too sure about that last paragraph.