Hauberk has a whole lot of stuff in it, and almost all of it is good and worth
keeping. But it just doesn't feel very *fun* right now. Some of this is probably
in my head. I know the game is unfinished, so it's hard to get myself into the
mindset of just playing them game instead of tinkering on it. 

But I do think there are some missing elements and I generally need to rethink
what the play experience is supposed to be and how it hangs together.

You can think of the gameplay as a series of nested loops. Each loop has a
distinct "during" period and then a distinct *ending* that feels different
before cycling back to the next iteration.

1.  The innermost loop is taking a single **turn**. The player can walk, attack,
    use an item, or a skill. The behavior system for things like running and
    resting means that often a single player input "turn" involves multiple
    hero actions.

    Once they take their turn, they see how the dungeon and its inhabitants
    react.

2.  An **encounter** is a multi-step fight with one or more monsters where the
    player doesn't have time to "relax" and the character can't fully restore
    back to a healthy state until the encounter is done. In other words, it's a
    series of turns where every turn *counts*.

    Once an encounter is over, the player may take a minute to heal, juggle
    items, or otherwise sort themselves out.

3.  A **session** of a single dungeon is a series of encounters until either the
    entire dungeon is clear or the player wants to leave it. Between encounters,
    they explore new areas, pick up treasure, and interact with the dungeon
    itself.

    Once back home, they can buy, sell, or exchange gear, maybe save the game.

5.  A **playthrough** begins with creating a new character, growing the
    character, and ends with beating the final boss. The players levels the hero
    up, gains skills, acquires weapons and armor, and amasses a stock of
    consumables for important battles.

    The playthrough ends with defeating the last boss or (if we do permadeath)
    dying. Then the player creates a new character and starts anew.

I think there are real problems with basically every level, more or less. Enough
that I'm going to split out docs for each one.

I should focus on this bottom-up. Make the encounter experience fun, then
session, then playthrough.
