This level is probably the most OK. The player can walk, melee, use weapon
skills, use items, and use skills. They have a fair amount of choices they can
make. The UI is fairly smooth.

## Running

I think the run logic can use some work. It doesn't handle twisty passages
(which are really common with the new hybrid dungeon generator) well. That does
feel mildly annoying all the time when traversing the dungeon.

## Messages

One real UX failure is that I rarely find myself reading the messages, even
though they provide useful information and interesting flavor. It took me a long
time to realize why that's not a problem in Angband.

In Angband, there's no visual indication when a melee attack hits. You *have*
to read the messages to see if you missed or not, so that forces you to keep
your eyes there. In Hauberk, there's a little asterisk effect that registers
hits, so it's more natural to keep your eyes on the battle. That's good for
noticing other interesting things like monsters moving, but it means the log
is pretty unused.

I'd like that to feel more cohesive. I'm not sure how. I could try not having
an effect for hits to force you to read the log, but that feels like a step
backwards. I'm tempted to try having messages hover over the actual play area
or something.

## Initiative

Currently, there's no way to tell how much processing will happen between one
turn and the next and which monsters will take to act. I think it's worth
showing the turn order explicitly, probably in the monster list. That will give
the players more visibility into that, and make it easier for them to plan
multiple moves ahead.

Of course, the turn order can change if actor speed changes, but the UI can at
least show what the turn order *would be* based on everything's current speed.
