I think warriors are the class closest to being usable deeper into the game
since unlike mages they don't need a large number of additional spells to be
useful, so I'm going to work on them some.

Aside from the passive skills which certainly need tuning, their main mechanic
is spending fury to use skills. The mechanics for that are currectly a mess.
The current rules are:

-   Strength determines maximum fury. It ranges from 40 to 100 when strength is
    1 to 10, and 100 to 200 from strength 10 to 60.

-   Fury is gained by giving damage to monsters. The math is:

    ```
    fury += damage / defender.maxHealth * maxHealth / 100
    ```

    So basically, the greater the fraction of the monster's total life, the
    more fury. And the more health the hero has, the more fury? I don't know
    why the latter comes into play.

-   Fury is also gained by taking damage. The math is:

    ```
    fury += damage / maxHealth * 50
    ```

    So basically, the greater the fraction of the hero's health is lost, the
    more fury they gain.

-   Heroes lose fury when they regain focus. Their will stat determines how much
    they lose. At higher wills, they are able to hold onto their fury longer.

-   Fury is spent when using some active disciplines. They all currently cost
    20 fury.

The disciplines that spend fury are:

-   Axe Sweep: Does a sweep attack.
-   Whip Crack: Does a short ranged attack.
-   Spear Attack: Does an attack that penetrates two adjacent monsters.
-   Bash Attack: Hits an adjacent monster and tries to push it back.

(Note that archery consumes focus, not fury, which makes it different from other
warrior skills.)

## Discipline scaling

I'd like to add a few more disciplines with actions, like maybe a shield bash.
But I don't expect to have too many. Playing a warrior shouldn't involve
choosing from a long list of actions at each turn.

That implies that disciplines should never "age out" and get replaced by later
stronger ones. So every discipline should continue to grow more powerful. A
level 1 warrior will use Axe Sweep, as will a level 50.

Since the disciplines all use the underlying weapon to perform an attack, some
of this comes for free: the same discipline does more damage as the hero gets
stronger and gets better gear.

But the disciplines themselves also level up and get more powerful. That
encourages warriors to focus on a weapon type.

This means that over time, warriors should prefer using their active disciplines
over normal melee attacks because the discipline keeps getting better and better
at the same cost. Is that what we want? Currently, the scaling as the discipline
goes up is relatively small, so it's probably OK.

TODO: Think about how this should work.

## Warrior play styles

Fury exists to enable some kind of play style, but before I can figure out the
mechanic, I need to figure out what kind of play style(s) I want. I can think of
a few different that could work:

-   **More combat options.** We're simply giving the player a few more different
    actions to choose from during combat beyond just melee and walk. The actions
    may not necessarily be more powerful, just different: greater range,
    stunning, hitting multiple monsters, etc.

    To the degree that these alternative moves *are* more powerful, we may need
    to resource limit them in some way. If they aren't, in principle, we could
    let the player use them every turn.

-   **Warrior spells.** Essentially spell-like where a warrior incrementally
    builds up fury while doing regular melee and then when they reach enough
    they get to dish out a single big spicy attack that does something
    impressive. Basically like mage spells except being incentivized to wade
    into melee while charging up.

-   **Combo streaks.** Combat becomes a multi-turned dance of death where each
    successful hit makes successive ones even more powerful. Players try to
    carefully orchestate a battle so that they don't break the chain and, in
    theory at least, the chain is unlimited.

-   **Unleashed combos.** Somewhere between the previous two styles. The hero
    orchestrates a series of hits that, if successful, enable them to pull off
    a powerful end move that completes the combo.

## Goals

Disciplines are actively chosen by the player because I do want to give warriors
a few more options during combat. I wouldn't want to *just* have combos that
automatically do more damage while players do nothing but melee and walk around.
So the first play style is part of it.

I don't want disciplines to feel like "warrior spells". It's something I never
particularly liked about Diablo. Warriors do most of their work by using their
weapons to ceaselessly grind through flesh, not by having big splashy moments.
(When they want those moments, that's what consumables are for.)

I also like the idea of warrior players being incentivized to think several
moves ahead, so something chain or combo-like would be cool. It could give
combat a greater degree of strategic depth where the player isn't just trying to
maximize the next move. At the same time, the amount of randomness in the game
may make that hard.

## Idea: Fury as melee modifier

### Free active disciplines

OK, so here's an idea: We make the active disciplines free to use. Sweep attack
every damn turn if you want. You often don't *want* to use the discipline anyway
if, for example, you don't have enough room. And even if they are better, the
player still has to make some trade-offs about which kind of weapon to use,
which eliminates the disciplines for the other types.

We tune the disciplines so they're not preferable to a melee attack when there's
only one adjacent monster. We want even end-game players still meleeing when
that's all that's needed. This could mean that the active disciplines don't get
better at all as the discipline levels up.

Or it could be that additional moves are opened up at higher levels. Or the
range increases, etc. Even if not, these moves are still getting more powerful
because the hero's underlying gear and strength get better.

That checks the first play style.

### Fury as melee modifier

What fury does is make weapon attacks stronger. This affects both regular
melee actions as well as the active disciplines. Everything that bottoms out
on using a weapon or fists.

The longer the hero is in battle successfully dishing out damage, the stronger
they get, like a combo multiplier.

We could maybe say that the weapon mastery level determines the maximum for
this multiplier. Or we could keep it tied to strength. Or make a separate
discipline for "Battle Frenzy" that is trained for this.

Fury is never spent deliberately by the player. Even when it is applied to
attacks, it doesn't get used up. It's just a combo meter. Players try to keep
it full by chaining attacks and avoiding pauses in battle.

Fury goes down every turn the player *doesn't* deal damage. It's naturally self
limiting by eventually running out of stuff to kill.

### Taking damage

So does *receiving* damage "break the combo"? Our turn-based roguelike doesn't
work like a fighting game where hits stun and combos mean the enemy doesn't
respond. How does being hit affect fury?

It can't completely *break* the combo by zeroing out fury because that would
make fury useless. Actors almost always alternate beating on each other. The
options are:

-   **Reduce it by some amount.** As long as the hero is dishing out relatively
    more damage than they're taking (for whatever definition of "relative"),
    they can keep the combo going. But if they get beat on too hard, then they
    start to lose their bloodlust and get discouraged.

    This discourages players from wading right into the middle of battle because
    they want to be in the fray enough to keep their fury up, but not get
    overwhelmed so much that it is drowned out.

    This also means that fighting a stronger monster than the hero nullifies
    the effects of fury.

-   **Have no effect on it.** Fury is just about what the hero is doing,
    independent of what is being done to the hero. Players can try to just keep
    a tiny chain of individual fights going or get surrounded by monsters.

-   **Increase it.** Getting hit enrages them *even further.* Warriors basically
    *always* get more powerful the longer they are in combat. Since nothing
    spends fury except not fighting, this means that every battle will
    eventually max their fury.

When a hero is fighting a boss surrounded by minions, I want a viable strategy
to be using the minions as fodder to ramp up fury before taking on the boss.
That can work with all of these.

But when a hero is fighting a large monster or a bunch at the same time, that's
when they need fury the most and I think it would feel punishing for fury to
abandon them in their time of need.

Gaining fury from taking damage means fury is essentially just a fight clock,
which feels weird. So the simplest answer is to say that taking damage doesn't
affect fury.

Maybe we could add a "Berzerk" discipline/item/move that gives heroes the
ability to gain fury from taking damage for some amount of time. If we make that
an active discipline, we could balance it by giving it some cost (like not
gaining as much fury from giving damage).

## Fury for other classes

If we go with this idea then fury is no longer confined to warriors. Currently,
fury has absolutely no use for classes that can't gain disciplines. But with
this approach, we could (and most likely would) have it apply to melee hits for
all classes.

Since multiple classes also use focus, I like the symmetry.

Warriors will still get the most value from it because their masteries will
make melee hits more powerful which compounds with the fury scaling.

And if we make strength determine your maximum fury and maximum melee modifier,
then warriors will naturally take this farther than other classes.

## Numbers and tuning

This all sounds pretty good to me. The next step is figuring out the actual
math, ranges, and numbers.

It's basically an envelope, or more like a gate:

-   As the hero dishes out damage, it increases at some rate (how many turns /
    how much damage) and curvature.

-   Provided they keep continuously dealing damage, it eventually reaches some
    max damage modifier limit.

-   When not dealing damage, it decreases at some rate and curvature.

Then there is a sort of meta-parameter for how that envelope changes as the
hero's strength goes up: How do the increase curve, damage scale limit, and
decrease curves change?

### Fury to damage modifier

If you're a high level warrior, poking a worm for a point of damage should not
amp up your fury as much as dealing a huge blow to a giant stone troll. So that
suggests that fury needs to be finer-grained than just "number of successive
hits".

At the same time, I think it might feel more tangible if there are distinct
treshholds where its effect steps up.

Also, it feels a little weird to me if all players always have a tiny amount of
fury adding a miniscule bonus to damage as soon as they start fighting. It feels
to me like it should really be a little special and not kick in at all for a
while.

Finally, the maximum fury (and thus damage modifier) should increase with
greater strength, so I need to think about what it's useful maximum is for both
warriors and non-warriors.

Some points on the curve:

-   Obviously, at zero fury, the first round of battle, the damage scale is
    just 1.0. It never *harms* damage to not have fury.

-   Players that don't invest in strength at all (like low-level mages) may
    have no meaningful fury at all.

-   For even relatively low-level warriors, fury should feel like an important
    part of combat strategy, not just a trivial boost. So maybe around 1.2x for
    a strength of 12?

-   Since high-level warriors are also going to have powerful weapons and since
    strength also modifies heft and scales damage that way, the fury modifier
    probably shouldn't go too high or the compounding will be insane. Note that
    the heft modifier only goes up to 2x. It's mostly a punishment for using
    too heavy stuff, so that compounding isn't too bad.

    Also, if fury isn't drained through melee, then in a long battle, once it's
    maxed, the hero will be getting that max modifier every single round.

    Maybe say 3x?

OK, let's say each "level" of fury is a .1x multiplier from 1.0 up to 3.0, so
20 levels. They range from level 1 at strength 10 up to level 20 at strength 60.
That doesn't divide nicely. Maybe fury stops going up at strength 50. So each
2 points of strength increases your max fury enough to reach another .1x
multiplier.

### Fury value

The UI only shows fury "level" and multiplier, and multipliers are stepped so
that you need to reach the next level to reach the next multiplier. That makes
the echelons feel significant.

But internally, we need to track it at higher precision. Let's say there are
100 points of fury for each level. So max fury ranges from 0 to 2000. At
strength 10, the max is 100 so that you can unlock a single 0.1x multiplier.
Less than strength 10 means fury doesn't come into play at all. At strength 50,
the max is 2000.

### Fury gain rate

When the hero is in combat, how quickly does fury stack up? When fighting
monsters at about the hero's appropriate level and depth, I think they should
roughly gain a level of fury each time they hit.

Basically, as long as you aren't just whaling on some tiny underpowered monster,
you should roughly go up a level per turn of successful melee.

I think that's true regardless of your max fury level. As the max goes up, it
just takes more turns to reach it.

## Simpler approach

For now, I'm going to try a simpler mechanic:

-   Each turn where the hero deals damage, they gain a fury level (up to their
    max).

-   Each turn where they don't, they lose as many fury levels as the number of
    turns since they did damage (so an increasing rate).

No incremental fury within a level. Will doesn't affect the decay rate. Just
trying to do something simple so I can land it and iterate.
