I've been thinking about how when I play Minecraft, I'll often have a half dozen
little projects I've created for myself that I chip away at. That makes each
play session a little more rewarding because I'm always working towards some
near-term goal and not just one giant one.

I don't intend Hauberk to be an open-ended simulation game, so it shouldn't feel
exactly like that. But it does seem like play sessions, especially early-game
ones, would be more fun if you could pick little intermediate goals and work
towards them. Right now, the play style is quite uniform. You're always just
going into the dungeon at some depth, grinding for XP, and hoping for better
gear.

That's OK. But it might be nice if you could be a little more intentional about
what you're working towards. And it might feel like a greater sense of
progression if there were individual things that you could unlock, so that the
game feels like it gets bigger over time.

## Stuff you could earn/achieve/unlock

*   **Gear.** This one's obvious. It's always good to get better gear, but right
    now, it's either almost completely random drops or buying stuff in shops.

*   **Leveling up.** This increases a bunch of stats and is the main way the
    player progresses. This would go away if we did experience as a currency.

*   **Gaining stats.** I can't recall if there are permanent stat gain potions
    or not, but permanently raising a stat is a way to progress.

*   **Unlocking deeper dungeon levels.** Right now, you do this by successfully
    leaving the earlier level.

*   **Unlocking other dungeons.** If we had multiple dungeons, you could have
    to earn access to them.

*   **Unlocking shops.** We could make it so that not all shops are immediately
    available.

*   **Gaining or levelling skills.** Right now, spellbooks grant you spells, and
    disciplines are trained naturally. I've got some ideas around rogue skills
    and priest granted powers but nothing fully fleshed out.

*   **Achievements.** We could give the player meaningless but named
    achievements just as a thing to do. Titles might fit into this.

*   **Subclasses.** In the last note, I talked about maybe making subclasses
    something that are earned in game.

*   **Recipes.** We could make it so that you don't have access to all possible
    crucible recipes from the get-go.

## Ways you could earn stuff

*   **Spend gold.** The most obvious one. You can just buy shit. This works OK
    for some stuff. The main problem is that havig one currency that works to
    acquire a lot of stuff means that you aren't working towards any one
    specific goal. You're simultaneously working towards all of them. The
    flexibility is nice, but it means while you're grinding for gold, it doesn't
    feel as specific or intentional.

*   **Spend experience.** If we make experience a currency, then spending it
    would earn stuff. This has the same problem as gold where the more fungible
    it is -- the more stuff you can spend it on -- the less intentional it
    feels.

*   **Complete quests.** A lot of games have a mechanism where an NPC gives you
    a specific quest, and a reward if you complete it. You have the option to
    accept the quest or not. Sometimes there is a limit to how many ongoing
    quests you can have. The quest itself is some kind of task, usually
    acquiring an otherwise fairly useless item, or maybe killing a certain
    number of some kind of thing.

    By knowing the reward and choosing whether or not to accept the quest, the
    player has a decent amount of control and intentionality. Authoring a big
    pile of quests could be a chore, though. Randomly generated quests are
    probably possible.

*   **Craft items.** Now that the crucible is back, a way to earn better gear
    is by collecting the components to craft it. I like this because it feels
    very concrete and because the components are so specific, it's pretty
    intentional. You can also have pretty long crafting chains where you craft
    X which is used as a component to craft Y which is used to craft Z. That
    means it can be a fairly long, complex process with intermediate sub-goals
    culminating in a big one.

    This also helps solve the problem of how we can have players finding more
    items without most of them being useless. I think this worked really well in
    Diablo.

    Gear and loot is so central to roguelikes, that this feels like a good one
    to emphasize.

*   **Kill a certain unique.** In addition to good drops, uniques could
    potentially have guaranteed specific item drops, or unlock other things in
    the game. Like you have to beat a certain unique to unlock another dungeon.

*   **Kill a certain number of X monster.** Kind of like training slaying
    disciplines, we could reward the player for killing a certain number of
    some monster.

    The challenge with this is that the player has little control over which
    monsters they encounter. If we had multiple themed dungeons, that would
    help. If pits were more common and monsters and dungeons were tuned so that
    players are expected to avoid monsters more often, that might help. Instead
    of clearing the dungeon, you'd be trying to carefully explore it while
    avoiding monsters and focusing on the ones you do want to tangle with.

*   **Clearing the dungeon.** There could be a reward for killing all monsters
    on the dungeon. Likewise clearing all the monsters in a pit or vault.

*   **Find a certain item.** In addition to using items as recipe components,
    we could have rewards or quests gated on finding some otherwise rare but
    not very useful item.

*   **Reach a certain level.** If we keep experience levels around, then we
    could gate some things on reaching a level. Gaining stats is what we do
    now, but we could have shops or dungeons that are only accessible once you
    reach a certain level. Or skills could require a certain level.

*   **Reach a certain stat value.** We could say that having some stat reach a
    certain value lets you do some new thing. The game already does this in a
    few ways where things like intellect and spell complexity limit the spells
    you can cast. Likewise strength, weight, and heft mean that strength limits
    the weapons and armor you can use effectively.

*   **Complete a dungeon.** If we do multiple dungeons, then reaching the
    bottom floor of one and leaving successfully should provide some reward.

## Knowing the reward or not

One of the fun things about roguelikes is the gambling-like random experience of
never knowing if the next room will have some great item in it. That sense of
surprise is great.

At the same time, that directly conflicts with the player working towards goals.
If they don't know what they're going to get, they aren't working towards it.

I think the right answer is that the game should have a blend of both. Right
now, it's almost entirely random stuff and it could use a little more intention.
At the same time, I don't want to go so far in that direction that it feels too
rigid or mechanical. Surprise is a key part of the roguelike experience.
