Still working through how classes and skills should behave. What I know I want:

*   Some kind of "adventurer" class where the player doesn't really know who
    they'll become going in but can evolve it based on opportunities. And also,
    where they can end up building a character that is a "little bit of this and
    a little bit of that". Not quite a "jack of all trades" but more like a
    "jack of an unexpected random but finite set of trades".

*   I really like the idea of getting a combinatorial set of play experiences by
    allowing players to invest in different skills even within a single class.
    This is similar to how in Diablo, you can play a sorcerer and in one
    playthrough be an ice sorcerer and in another focus on lightning.

*   I like the idea of classes that feel a bit "dual-class" where they have some
    of two archetypal classes. A "paladin" that is a warrior + some priest
    spells. A "warlock" that can do OK in combat and also has some mage spells.
    An "arcane rogue" that can do sneaky thief stuff but also cast a few
    sinister spells.

*   It seems like all but the most pure-mage characters should be able to
    develop combat skills at least a little. Not sure if that means they should
    be able to unlock the special attacks, but maybe.

*   Nearly everyone should be *able* to use a bow. At the same time, I don't
    think the game should play like Angband where every character always carries
    a bow. It should only be a primary weapon for dedicated archer-like
    characters.

*   Heavily spellcasting-oriented characters should wield wands and staves that
    are mostly useless in melee but boost magical abilities.

All of this suggests a strongly skill-based system where there aren't really
classes and the player just picks which skills to develop. However:

*   Characters shouldn't be able to max out all the things. End stage characters
    should be varied and different playthroughs should diverge as they reach the
    end game, not converge. Angband is bad about this where an end game mage
    always has a big sword and pile of armor.

*   I think there's value in constraints and making the player commit to early
    choices that constrain the playthrough. A lot of the fun in replayability of
    a game comes from picking constraints and trying to fit within them. Things
    like "ironman" in Angband and the various ways that people play Minecraft
    with arbitrary chosen limitations.

*   It's really nice and satisfying to be able to say "my character is a dark
    elf sorcerer" or "dwarf warrior". Names and labels matter so much in games,
    especially a fantasy roguelike without real graphics. A purely skill based
    system loses that because you're just "some dude with level 7 spellcasting,
    level 3 archery, etc.".

## Current design

My current plan is a hybrid between class-based and skill-based where:

*   Most player capabilities come from skills, which are leveled up by spending experience.

*   There are a set of classes and you pick one at character creation. Each
    class has a set of "proficiencies" which scale the experience cost for
    different skills. Some classes may have zero proficiency in a skill which
    means they can't use it at all.

    Proficiencies are basically *all* a class does. (Likewise, scaling the
    experience cost for raising stats is all race does.)

I don't think this is a bad design, but I do worry that really I'm just kicking
my own hard choices down the road. I do ultimately have to pick a set of classes
and choose their proficiencies. I'm really unsure about which classes should
have *zero* proficiency in some skills versus "you can do this but it's really
hard".

In particular, are there skills where basically every class has zero proficiency
in it but one class? In other words, are there skills that only one class can
access? If the answer is "yes" and that's true for most skills, then really this
is just a class-based game. If the answer is mostly "no", then it's really just
a skill-based game with classes sort of bolted on. Is there a good middle point
where classes feel meaningful and skill development is rewarding?

## Classes as skill level cap

Here's an idea that I think will help classes feel more distinct and like a
more meaningful choice: Each class sets the maximum levels for each skill. So
a mage class might allow a little advancement in weapon skills, but there is a
hard limit. It's not just proficiency where they *could* fully max a weapon
skill if they wanted to, they just have to pay a lot. They really can't.

In fact, it might be sufficient to have level caps and not do proficiency at
all. Every class has the same experience costs for skills, it's just that some
hit a cap sooner than others.

In some ways, this makes feel less rewarding. Choosing a class is basically
choosing what you *can't* do. But I think that's OK. One of the main goals of
classes is replayability, and a big part of replayability is winning the game
under different constraints.

Also, there will be no class that allows max level for all skills, so when
compared to other classes, a class thta does let you max some skill is a reward
versus others that don't.

Some examples of how I'd cap skills for various classes:

*   Adventurer: Access to basically everything but moderate caps on all of it.
    Literally "master of none".

*   Warrior: High access to all of the weapon and warrior skills, but maybe not
    the absolute highest levels of all weapon skills. No access to spells. A
    little access to some of the rogue skills.

*   Archer or other weapon specialist: Full access to that weapon skill.
    Moderate access to others.

*   Mage: Very small amount of access to weapon skill, probably no dual wield.
    Access to all spell schools but the highest couple of levels are off limits.

*   Sorceror or other school-specific magic-user: Access to the highest level
    of the school's skill. Very limited access to opposing schools, if we do
    some notion of opposing schools. Moderate-to-limited access to other
    schools.

*   Warlock: Moderate access to weapon skills and a spell school or two.

That was quick to throw together, which is a good sign. Basically, the more
generalist a class is, the more skills it has some access to, but the fewer
high levels it can reach.
