The use of color in the UI has gotten increasingly inconsistent and ad hoc. I
took some screenshots and I'm going to try to come up with something more
consistent.

## Selection

`UIHue.selection` is gold. The intent was that this is to show the user what
part of the UI has input focus or what thing is selected in some kind of list.
It is used for the frames of modal dialogs and item lists when selecting an
item.

I think it maybe makes sense to use it for the keys in help keys because those
do respond to that user input.

But we should stop using it on:

* Item costs. It makes sense logically because money is gold, but it's
  confusing.

* Headers on the inspector. There's no reason for those to be gold.

* The selected tab on the hero info page.

* The frame header on the experience page.

## Lines

### Frames

Most frames are drawn in `darkCoolGray`. There isn't a `UIHue` for that but
probably should be.

The help keys frame is drawn using `UIHue.text`. There's no clear reason for
that. It does help it look like it floats over other UI stuff which is useful
because it does sit on top of frames on some screens. It should probably be
either the same `darkCoolGray` as all the other frames or maybe `coolGray` to at
least somewhat match them.

Modal dialog frames are drawn using the selection color. I think that works.

Modal dialogs are usually drawn with a double border all around. The new hero
screen is pretty much a modal (over nothing) so probably should too.

Selecting from an item list turns the item list into something like a modal
dialog. But it's still drawn with single border except for the top. I like how
that looks.

### Tab bars

There's a tab bar on the experience page. For that, we need a color for the
frame line for the current tab, and a color for the other tabs. It makes sense
for the former to be brighter than the latter. I think probably `darkCoolGray`
for the current tab and `darkerCoolGray` for the others.

Or maybe we match this with the help text frame and do something lighter than
`darkCoolGray` for the current tab. The rule here would then be that frame lines
default to `darkCoolGray` but if a frame is "in front of" others, then it gets a
lighter version?

I don't like that this rule is sort of contextual. It makes it hard to have a
semantic color for the help text frame.

### Frames and panels

I think maybe the distinction I want to make is between lines that frame or
dialog or form the border of a screen versus lines within a screen for
separation or panels. The former is a brighter color than the latter.

So help text is a frame because it hovers over another screen. Likewise dialog
frames. The tab bar is also a frame even though it's within the info screen
because each of the tabs works sort of like a separate screen and the active
tab itself floats in front of the other tabs.

The panels on the game screen are darker because they just partition the one
game screen. Likewise lines marking table borders and things like that.

Then there is one level fainter for things like row separators on tables.

## Text

This is the hard one. There's lot of text in the game and lots of kinds of text.
I'll just list everything I can find and then start assigning semantic
categories to them:

### Text in game

* Main menu
  * (Description) "Which hero..."
  * (Selection) Selected hero name
  * Unselected hero name
  * (Selection) Selected hero race and class
  * Unselected hero race and class
* Help keys
  * Message
  * Key
  * Brackets around key
  * Key description
* Create hero
  * (Description) "Out of forgotten..."
  * Selected section label like "Name:"
  * Unselected section label
  * (Selection) Selected widget text
  * Unselected widget text
  * Race/class description
* Game screen
  * Hero name (which is also a panel header)
  * "Equipment", "Inventory", etc. panel headers
  * Race and class
  * Stat name
  * Stat value
  * Property label ("Health", "Focus", etc.)
  * Property value
  * Property max
  * Actor name in nearby actor list
  * Log text
* Select depth popup
  * (Description) "Stairs descend..."
  * (Selection) Selected level number
  * Unselected level number
* Item panel
  * When just playing game and not selecting anything
    * Item name
    * Empty equipment slot
  * When selecting item to do something with
    * (Selection) Item letter
    * Item letter bracket
    * Item name
    * (Disabled) Unusable item name
  * Shop when interacting with shop
    * (Selection) Shop name
    * (Selection) Item letter
    * Item letter bracket
    * Item name
    * (Disabled) Unusable item name
  * Shop when interacting with own item list
    * (Panel header) Shop name
    * Item letter
    * Item letter bracket
    * Item name
    * (Disabled) Unusable item name
* Info dialog
  * (Selection) Selected tab name
  * Unselected tab name
  * Table header
  * Table header group name ("=== Attack ===")
  * (Selection) Selected row name
  * Unselected row name
  * (Selection) Selected row cell
  * Unselected row cell
  * "Totals" header
  * Total values
* Inspector
  * (Panel header) Name
  * Section header like "Attack:"
  * Property label like "Damage:"
  * Property value
  * (Disabled) Disabled property value
  * (Description) Description text
* Experience dialog
  * (Panel header) Left panel label
  * Table header like "Val" and "Cost"
  * (Selection) Selected row name
  * Unselected row name
  * (Selection) Selected row cell
  * Uselected row cell
  * (Disabled) Disabled row name
  * (Disabled) Disabled row cell
  * Right panel label
  * Panel property label like "Base value:"
  * Panel property value

### Semantic colors

* Disabled: Text for something that is sometimes present but not now.

* Selection: Currently chosen out of a set of things the player can choose. Or
  key that player can enter. Frame color if user is selecting a thing in the
  frame.

* Description: Descriptive, explanatory, or introductory text. Something the
  player reads but doesn't directly interact with.

* Panel header: Header text on a non-selected panel.

* Text: Things the user should read to understand what to do or learn lore.
  Text in this color is most likely to be a full sentence with a "." or "?" at
  the end.

## To do

* Don't use gold for item costs.
* Don't use gold for inspector headers.
* Don't use gold for the selected tab on the hero info page.
* Don't use gold for the frame header on the experience page.
* Use `darkerCoolGray` or maybe a lighter version for the help text frame.
* Use a double border frame for the new hero screen.
* Figure out what to do for tab bars.
